>> Scott Moss: Let's check out Lesson 5,
which is gonna be our last lesson for
today, but probably the most valuable one,
because it's testing.
And everybody here writes tests.
>> Scott Moss: [LAUGH] Nobody writes test.
They are like [COUGH] test.
You're right.
Okay, yeah.
Nobody writes test, but like you should
at least know how to write GraphQL test.
>> Class: [LAUGH]
>> Scott Moss: [LAUGH]
You should at least know how cuz it's on
your ticket that you got, it says you
gotta write test on your ticket, right?
So you need to do it.
And testing in GraphQL,
it can be actually pretty fun.
I found testing in GraphQL is way
simpler than testing with anything,
especially if you use best practices and
stuff like that.
So first thing we wanna talk about is
how to write testable resolvers and
keeping those testable,
so you can test them.
We already scratched the surface on
it when we talked about context, but
let's just dive into it.
And I don't think we're gonna
have too many examples in
our code of what a resolver would
look like if you couldn't test it, so
we'd probably just make
some bad ones right now.
But let's talk about the good
things about a testable resolver.
One, I already mentioned,
is basically if you just rely on
the context object, you will go far.
You will go far.
So, put everything on context.
Don't try to import anything that you
have to use in this function because it
makes it really hard.
Two, try your best to extract
all the logic that's inside
of a resolver out of the resolver,
and just use it inside the resolver.
The reason you're gonna
do that is because,
yes when you call your resolvers
you can like mark out the stuff for
like, what if you had a function
that was marking this out?
Like can you imagine it's gonna
mark out this info object?
Like you just couldn't.
So let's not try to do that.
But instead, let's take out most of
this stuff, this one's not so bad, and
put it in another function.
And then just call that function with
the only arguments that it needs.
It doesn't need these GraphQL arguments,
it just needs these specific things.
And then you could test those functions
independently from the resolver,
which makes it a lot easier to test.
And that's just true with testing in
general, but even more so with GraphQL.
So for instance, if I were to
convert this trivial example over,
I might just say,
I might just take that out.
Obviously I put this on another file, but-
>> Scott Moss: I go
like this.
>> Scott Moss: And
then instead of that,
I might just say, models.
And then, id-
>> Scott Moss: projectModel.
And yeah, that's what all I would do.
So I would do that,
I would convert this to projectModel.
>> Scott Moss: And change this to id.
And then now in here,
I can just return getProject.
With the args.input.id, and
then ctx.models.project.
And now, all I really gotta
do is to test this function,
which has just these two arguments.
Which is way easier than
these two arguments,
or these four arguments.
>> Scott Moss: Right?
So this is a true example, but
you will have resolvers that you will
be scrolling on for a long time.
And when you start doing that, and
then when you finally decide to write test
because that's where your stripe code is.
You wanna write test there,
you realize you can't.
So you should start doing
this to begin with, and
now you almost never have to touch these.
Yeah, the only thing you've got
to test this function is that it
calls this function.
Expect this to be called.
That's it,
you don't really need to do anything else.
Then you go test this one by itself.
So it's way simpler.
That's how you keep all this stuff simple.
As far as testing these files right
here it really depends on you.
These files the way we're
importing they're just strings.
So you literally could just like, all
right here it is, I'm done Command a copy,
go into a test file and say,
it better look like this.
Like you could do that,
it's just a string.
It's only up to you and
there is nothing wrong with that.
You can also make a dynamic where
you import this as a GraphQL.
Like using a GraphQL where you digest this
and actually spits back javascript object,
and then you can test that and
to see if it has specific types on it.
That might be a more dynamic better
approach, but it's totally up to you.
Me personally, I don't test these.
I don't feel the need to actually come
in and test these actual files and
make sure that they're exactly
the way they're supposed to be.
And that's because the resolvers
have to match with them anyway,
and I test the resolvers.
But I can see a use case where
I'm testing to make sure
somebody doesn't come in here and do that.
All right, so you probably do want
to test for that so It's up to you.
This is literally just a string
if you import it as a strings.
So, hard code it in your test and
see that this string equals this file and
make sure it stays that way.
But then as soon as you change it,
you will definitely be breaking your test.
Which, I guess is what's supposed
to happen, so it's up to you.
Now, the other type of test
is actually testing that
given a certain query, you actually get
back the certain result, all right?
So wanna test the query,
you wanna test the mutation.
That's kind of like
an integration test on graph 2.0.
And that test I do all the time.
I think that's way more important.
Just testing out the inputs,
how all this stuff works.
Is this stuff gonna resolve?
And that's really testing everything, so
that's what I wanna walk through today.
So testing that,
the integration testing stuff and
then testing just unit
testing like the resolvers.
So let's just do an example of that.
So if you're going to test an API,
there is a project.spec here,
you're gonna be doing some test
stuff in here, but before that,
I'm just gonna write some test on task,
let's see.
So task, we got a whole bunch of
resolvers here, we got tons of queries,
we got all types of things.
So what I wanna do is-
>> Scott Moss: Gonna come in here,
I'm gonna make a new
file called task.spec.js.
And we're using Jest for writing tests.
If you've never used Jest before,
it's fine.
It's the same thing as Mocha,
which is the same thing as Jasmine.
So it's all the same thing, so
you're not really missing anything here.
All right, and there's just some setup and
tear down here for connecting,
and dropping, and
disconnecting to the database, so
you don't have to worry about any of
that stuff, it's all taken care for you.
And then this magic function in here
which really shows the power of GraphQL.
Basically, I take the schema that
we used to generate our server,
that exact same schema, that same
resolvers, the same type definitions.
And then I give in a query and some
variables and even some optional context,
I'm able to execute that query,
write in the test.
I don't need a server for it,
I just execute the query.
And that's how GraphQL works.
I can run GraphQL anywhere.
In fact, there's literally
a package called GraphQL anywhere,
where you can run GraphQL
anywhere without a schema.
It's really crazy.
But in this case,
given a schema in a query, and
some optional variables in context,
I'm able to execute anything.
So this means in a test, I can actually
just write a query as a client would.
Insert it into this function and expect
some output, just like a client would.
So it's like an integration test.
So this is how we can exit,
run our GraphQL test without
actually having a server.
We don't have to start the server up and
see, we can just execute
the GraphQL just like this.